README for assignment1

1)
ABOUT
It contains a file a1.py,
a1.py is the file for generating the 96 classes of images containing lines satisfying the stated conditions for this question.

PREREQUISITES

To load a1.py python3 should be installed on your system.

USAGE
Open your terminal and run the following command
python3 a1.py

2)
ABOUT
It contains one file q2.py 
First tried using simple sequential execution of a python code to simulate a 2D gravitational force modelling on 100 particles until the distance between any 2 particles falls below a threshold.
the first one converges in 330 iterations,second one using tensorflow computational graph for the same model converged in 16 iterations resulting in a better performance.

PREREQUISITES

To load a1.py python3 should be installed on your system.

USAGE
Open your terminal and run the following command
python3 q2.py


3)
ABOUT
It contains the required code.
for the line dataset
for this dataset we first converted it to grayscale image and then flattened it to 1d array.
the layer sizes taken respectively starting from inner layer towards outwards were 784 128 64 10 and in between the layers we applied activation sigmoid.
firstly the input we considered images of size 28*28 are reshaped to 1-dimensional vector of size 784 and the output layer is of size 10.
we tried to keep the number of layers variant by sometimes trying 1 layer,sometimes 2 in order to get a desirable accuracy.
we also used to vary the activation function by applying linear activation function and sigmoid activation function.
we also introduced a new parameter of learning rate which ranged from 0.01 to 1.

for the mnist dataset
the procedure followed for this dataset was exactly same as the line dataset and the variants followed were also the same as above.
there is layer class inside neuron.py which is inherited by sigmoid class inside neuron.py

USAGE
python3 mnist.py
python3 line-class.py
python3 neuron.py 


